Blog for Android 2023.3 (#26703)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_posts/2023-03-25-android-20233.markdown

---
layout: post
title: "Android 2023.3: Multiple servers, Windows 11"
description: "It's finally here: add multiple servers to the Home Assistant Android app, install the app on Windows 11 devices and more!"
date: 2023-03-25 00:00:00
date_formatted: "March 25, 2023"
author: Joris Pelgröm
comments: true
categories:
 - Release-Notes
og_image: /images/blog/2023-03-25-android/social.png
---

![Home Assistant logo with 'Android 2023.3' text](/images/blog/2023-03-25-android/social.png)

It's finally here, one of the most common feature requests for the Home Assistant
Android Companion app: you can now configure multiple Home Assistant servers. The

> app can send sensor updates to all servers and easily mix and match widgets, tiles

Reviewer: ```suggestion
app can send sensor updates to all servers and easily mix and match widgets, tiles,
```

and controls for different servers 🎉

Plus, a preview of the Home Assistant app is now available on the Amazon Appstore
on Windows 11, which allows you to quickly connect your computer to Home Assistant.

There are also other changes that add some polish to the app and improve support

> for features in the latest Home Assistant releases, so let's dig in to the update!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
for features in the latest Home Assistant releases, so let's dig into the update!
```

## Configure multiple Home Assistant servers

Sometimes, one Home Assistant instance is not enough. You like Home Assistant so
much that you decide to help someone else get started, there's a second home in
your life, or you regularly visit someplace else where they're using Home Assistant.

Before this update, if you wanted to access more than one server it was a bit of a

> hassle. Switching apps, creating bookmarks, using different profiles. Let alone

Reviewer: ```suggestion
hassle. Switching apps, creating bookmarks, and using different profiles. Let alone
```

connecting your Android device to multiple servers for features like sensors
and notifications.

> This issue now belongs to the past, as there's a new option in [Settings] >

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This issue now belongs to the past, as there's a new option in **{% my config title="Settings" %}** >
```

> Companion app to configure  a second server, and another one after that, and another...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Companion app** to configure a second server, and another one after that, and another...
```

They will all show up in the app, and you can use all features you've come to

> expect like lots of sensors for your device and support for push notifications.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
expect, like lots of sensors for your device and support for push notifications.
```

Each one gets individual settings, so if you don't want to share your step count
and enable location tracking everywhere, that's OK.

![Screenshots of a phone showing different dashboards in the app, one of them showing a pop-up titled 'Choose server'](/images/blog/2023-03-25-android/multiserver.png)

> That's not all - you can use all servers _outside_ the app as well, mixing and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
That's not all - you can also use all servers _outside_ the app, mixing and
```

matching servers when using shortcuts, notifications, widgets, tiles and controls.
Toggling lights from three different homes side-by-side? No problem!

Note: the Wear OS app does not yet support multiple servers.

[Settings]: https://my.home-assistant.io/redirect/config/

## Now available on Windows 11 (preview)

The Home Assistant Android Companion app is now available on [supported Windows 11 devices]

> via the Amazon Appstore. While there are already great options to integrate your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Home Assistant Android Companion app is now available via the Amazon Appstore
on [supported Windows 11 devices]. While there are already great options to integrate your
```

> computer out there from the community, the Companion app makes it easy to start

Reviewer: ```suggestion
computer from the community out there, the Companion app makes it easy to start
```

and benefits from all the work on the Android app, frequently adding new features.

![Screenshot of the Home Assistant Android app on a Windows 11 device](/images/blog/2023-03-25-android/windows.png)

Windows does not always provide correct information to the app and may shut down
background work, including sensors, after several minutes, which is why we are
releasing Windows 11 support for the app as a preview. Android support in Windows
11 continues to get better and we intend to make adjustments to improve the
experience in the future.

> TODO: link to Microsoft Store

Reviewer: TODO

Author: Removed as it doesn't look like deeplinks are available

[supported Windows 11 devices]: https://support.microsoft.com/windows/f8d0abb5-44ad-47d8-b9fb-ad6b1459ff6c

## Refining Wear OS

> The Home Assistant app has been available for a bit over a year now on Wear OS

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Home Assistant app has been available for over a year now on Wear OS
```

> watches, and continues to improve. Earlier this year initial support for Assist was

Reviewer: ```suggestion
watches and continues to improve. Earlier this year, initial support for Assist was
```

---
layout: post
title: "Android 2023.3: Multiple servers, Windows 11"
description: "It's finally here: add multiple servers to the Home Assistant Android app, install the app on Windows 11 devices and more!"
date: 2023-03-25 00:00:00
date_formatted: "March 25, 2023"
author: Joris Pelgröm
comments: true
categories:
 - Release-Notes
og_image: /images/blog/2023-03-25-android/social.png
---

![Home Assistant logo with 'Android 2023.3' text](/images/blog/2023-03-25-android/social.png)

> It's finally here, one of the most common feature requests for the Home Assistant
> Android Companion app: you can now add multiple servers to your app, send sensor
> updates to all connected servers and easily mix and match widgets, tiles and
> controls. 🎉

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It's finally here, one of the most common feature requests for the Home Assistant
Android Companion app: you can now configure multiple Home Assistant servers. The app can send sensor
updates to all servers and easily mix and match widgets, tiles and
controls for different servers 🎉
```

Plus, a preview of the app is now available on the Amazon Appstore on Windows 11

> devices, which allows you to quickly connect your computer to Home Assistant.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Plus, a preview of the Home Assistant app is now available on the Amazon Appstore on Windows 11, which allows you to quickly connect your computer to Home Assistant.
```
